:orphan:

What's new in revision 0.6.6
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

These are the changes in SpectroChemPy-0.6.6.
See :ref:`release` for a full changelog including other versions of SpectroChemPy.

New features
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* `~spectrochempy.plot_multiple` method now accept keyword arguments to change the default
  plot style of the different spectra.
* `BaselineCorrection` class has been renamed into
  `~spectrochempy.Baseline`, and there are changes in the way it
  is now used. It allows to perform baseline correction
  on a dataset with multiple algorithms. `BaselineCorrection` is still valid but deprecated.
* Three new baseline algorithms have been added to the new Baseline processor:
  `~spectrochempy.rubberband`, `~spectrochempy.asls` and `~spectrochempy.snip` .
* Filters has been refactored. A new `Filter` processor class allows to define various
  filters and apply them to a dataset. See `Filtering and Smoothing` tutorials and `Filter`
  for details. Note: Backward compatibility is ensured with the previous `smooth`
  and `savgol_filter` methods.
* A `whittaker` filter has been added to the `~spectrochempy.Filter` processor class.
  See `Filtering and Smoothing`
  tutorials and `~spectrochempy.Filter` for details.
  A method is also available: `~spectrochempy.whittaker`.
* A `~spectrochempy.denoise` method based on PCA analysis has been added which allows
  to apply a denoising filter to a 2D dataset.
* A `~spectrochempy.despike` method has been added to the `~spectrochempy.Filter` processor class.
  It allows to remove spikes from a 1D or 2D dataset. This close issues #688.
* New examples has been added to the gallery

Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

* Docs problems fixed (#687).

Deprecations
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* `parameters` method of Analysis configurables is now deprecated in favor of `params`.
* The `BaselineCorrection` processor has been deprecated in favor of `~spectrochempy.Baseline` .
* `abc` (and its alias `ab`) method has been deprecated in favor of `~spectrochempy.basc`.
* `savgol_filter` method has been deprecated in favor of `~spectrochempy.Filter` processor class or the `~spectrochempy.savgol` method.
