What's new in revision 0.2.0
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

These are the changes in SpectroChemPy-0.2.0. See :ref:`release` for a full changelog
including other versions of SpectroChemPy.

New features
~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  Copyright update.
-  Requirements and env yml files updated.
-  Use of the coordinates in math operation improved.
-  Added ROI and Offset properties to NDArrays.
-  Readers / Writers revisited.
-  Bruker TOPSPIN reader.
-  Added LabSpec reader for .txt exported files.
-  Simplified the format of scp file - now zipped JSON files.
-  Rewriting json serialiser.
-  Add function pathclean to the API.
-  Add some array creation function to NDMath.
-  Refactoring plotting preference system.
-  Baseline correction now accepts single value for ranges.
-  Add a waterfall plot.
-  Refactoring plot2D and 1D methods.
-  Added Simpson’rule integration.
-  Addition of multiple coordinates to a dimension works better.
-  Added Linear coordinates (EXPERIMENTAL).
-  Test for NDDataset dtype change at initialization.
-  Added subdir of txt files in ramandata.
-  Comparison of datasets improved in testing.py.
-  Comparison of datasets and projects.

Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

-  Dtype parameter was not taken into account during initialization of
   NDArrays.
-  Math function behavior for coords.
-  Color normalization on the full range for colorscale.
-  Configuration settings in the main application.
-  Compatibility read_zip with py3.7.
-  NDpanel temporary removed from the master.
-  2D IRIS.
-  Trapz integration to return NDDataset.
-  Suppressed a forgotten sleep statement that was slowing down the
   SpectroChemPy initialization.
-  Error in SIMPLISMA (changed affectations such as C.data[…] =
   something by C[…] = something.
-  Cleaning mplstyle about non-style parameters and corrected makestyle.
-  Argument of set_xscale.
-  Use read_topspin instead of the deprecated function read_bruker_nmr.
-  Some issues with interactive baseline.
-  Baseline and fitting tutorials.
-  Removed dependency of isotopes.py to pandas.
