:orphan:

What's new in revision 0.6.4
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

These are the changes in SpectroChemPy-0.6.4.
See :ref:`release` for a full changelog including other versions of SpectroChemPy.

New features
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* add `~spectrochempy.FastICA` analysis module.

Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

* Issue #643. Conversion from linear to non linear coord was not working properly.
  This was due to the use of the LinearCoord class which is now deprecated and replaced by Coord.
* File logging has been removed due to its bad impact on the performance.

Breaking changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* The behavior of Coord has been slightly modified. During initialisation
  of a Coord object, a try is given to convert the `data` to a linear array, with
  values evenly spaced. If this is not possible, the data are kept as they are but rounded
  to a number of significant digits (given by the parameter `sigdigits`).
  If the data are linear already, nothing is modified.
* The rounding of the data is now done in the `~spectrochempy.Coord` class automatically to at least
  2 decimals everytime the `data` are modified and during Coord initialisation,
  unless the parameter `bounding` is set to `False` during intialisation.
* Issue #647. ActionMassKinetics has been optimized and refactored.

Deprecations
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* The `LinearCoord` class is now deprecated and will be removed in a future version.
  Use the `~spectrochempy.Coord` class instead which performs now an automatic linearization of the data.
