:orphan:

What's New in Revision 0.9.0
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

These are the changes in SpectroChemPy-0.9.0.
See :ref:`release` for a full changelog, including other versions of SpectroChemPy.

New Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~
- Core plugin system: external packages can now register readers, writers,
  processors, visualizers, analyses, simulations, and dataset accessors via
  ``spectrochempy.plugins`` entry points.
- Plugin API: stable public interface at ``spectrochempy.api.plugins`` for
  plugin authors, with versioned API guarantees.
- Plugin documentation: developer guide covering architecture, API policy,
  packaging, and testing.
- NMR plugin (``spectrochempy-nmr``): TopSpin/Bruker reader and NMR utilities
  are now provided by an official plugin at ``plugins/spectrochempy-nmr/``.
- IRIS plugin (``spectrochempy-iris``): IRIS analysis and plotting are now
  provided by an official plugin at ``plugins/spectrochempy-iris/``.
- Cantera plugin (``spectrochempy-cantera``): Plug Flow Reactor simulation
  utilities added at ``plugins/spectrochempy-cantera/`` as an **experimental**
  plugin (not officially supported, API may change).
- Hypercomplex / quaternion support has been extracted from the core into the
  official ``spectrochempy-hypercomplex`` plugin. Use ``dataset.hyper.set_quaternion()``
  after installing the plugin.
- Carroucell reader extracted from the core into the official
  ``spectrochempy-carroucell`` plugin.
- Added ``NDDataset.reshape()``.

Bug Fixes
~~~~~~~~~

- Refactored PSD processing.

Dependency Updates
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Core dependency trimming: ``osqp`` and ``numpydoc`` removed from core
  dependencies; ``xlrd`` moved to the carroucell plugin.
- Added ``spectrochempy[plugins]`` pip extra that installs the official plugins:
  NMR, IRIS, Hypercomplex, and Carroucell. Cantera is available separately as an
  experimental plugin.



Breaking Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Reader functions (e.g. ``read_omnic``, ``read_opus``) are no longer
  available as ``NDDataset`` methods. Use ``scp.read_omnic(...)`` or
  plugin-namespaced access (e.g. ``scp.nmr.read_topspin(...)``) instead.
- TopSpin reading is now provided by the official NMR plugin. Use
  ``scp.nmr.read_topspin(...)`` after installing ``spectrochempy[nmr]``.
  The historical ``scp.read_topspin(...)`` alias remains available as a
  compatibility layer.
- IRIS analysis is now provided by the official IRIS plugin. Use
  ``scp.iris.IRIS`` or ``from spectrochempy.iris import IRIS`` after installing
  ``spectrochempy[iris]``. Limited root-level compatibility aliases remain
   available with deprecation warnings.


Developer
~~~~~~~~~

- FEATURE: Plugin template: cookie-cutter project template in ``plugins/plugin-template/``.
- FEATURE: Plugin test harness: ``PluginTestHarness`` in
  ``spectrochempy.testing.plugins`` for isolated plugin testing without
  global state leakage.
- MAINT: NDMath internal refactor: extracted focused private helpers
  (``_prepare_operation_quantities``, ``_check_coordinate_compatibility``,
  ``_resolve_operation_units``, ``_execute_operation``) and ``_ExecutionPlan``
  class from ``NDMath._op()``, reducing it from ~300 to ~70 lines.
- MAINT: ``__array_ufunc__`` now explicitly rejects unsupported ufunc methods
  (``reduce``, ``accumulate``, ``outer``, ``at``) by returning ``NotImplemented``.
- CI: Core publication workflows now only trigger on core release tags
  (``spectrochempy-v*``), preventing accidental core republication when
  plugin releases are created.
- CI: PyPI publication uses ``skip-existing`` to avoid hard failures on
  duplicate version uploads.
- CI: Conda stable (``main`` label) uploads no longer use ``--force``,
  preventing accidental overwrites of published releases.
