:orphan:

What's New in Revision 0.10.2
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

These are the changes in SpectroChemPy-0.10.2.
See :ref:`release` for a full changelog, including other versions of SpectroChemPy.

New Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- **New official PerkinElmer reader plugin.**  SpectroChemPy now provides
  ``spectrochempy-perkinelmer``, an official plugin for reading PerkinElmer
  ``.sp`` binary files.  The reader returns an ``NDDataset`` with wavelength
  coordinates and preserves acquisition metadata (instrument model, detector,
  source, date, serial number, software version, accessory, and image name).
  The parsing logic is adapted from the BSD-3-Clause licensed specio project.
  Includes a dedicated documentation page and a gallery example. (#897)

- ``read_omnic`` and ``read_spg`` can now read OMNIC SPG files containing
  spectra with non-identical x-axis definitions using
  ``allow_inconsistent_x=True``. Incompatible spectra are returned as a list
  of ``NDDataset`` objects instead of raising an error (#863).

- Added a minimal MATLAB ``.mat`` writer for simple numeric ``NDDataset``
  exchange using ``scipy.io.savemat``. This is an exchange format, not
  native SpectroChemPy persistence.

Improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- **Result objects** now provide attribute-style access to named outputs and
  diagnostics, for example ``pca.result.scores``, ``pca.result.loadings``, and
  ``pca.result.explained_variance``. The IRIS and TENSOR/CP plugins now follow
  the same contract through ``iris.result`` and ``cp.result``.

- **Stabilised official plugin ecosystem.** All six official plugins
  (hypercomplex, iris, tensor, nmr, carroucell, perkinelmer) now follow the
  same architecture, namespace API convention, and Result object contract.

- **Namespace-based I/O API (Phase 1).** Core domains such as ``jcamp``,
  ``csv``, ``matlab``, ``omnic``, ``opus``, ``quadera``, ``soc``, ``spc``,
  ``wire``, and ``labspec`` now expose ``scp.<domain>.read(...)``. Domains
  with existing writers (``jcamp``, ``csv``, ``matlab``) also expose
  ``scp.<domain>.write(...)``. These namespaces delegate to the existing
  public ``read_*`` and ``write_*`` functions; no behaviour has changed.
  Legacy names remain supported.

- **PerkinElmer ``.sp`` reader** enriched with additional metadata fields
  (``instrument_serial_number``, ``instrument_software_version``,
  ``ir_accessory``, ``image_name``). When ``image_name`` is present and
  ``dataset.description`` is empty, ``image_name`` is used as the dataset
  description.

- **OMNIC acquisition metadata** harmonized across SPG and SRS readers.
  ``collection_length``, ``optical_velocity``, and ``laser_frequency`` are
  now consistently exposed in ``dataset.meta`` for all three OMNIC formats
  (SPA, SPG, SRS). Previously, SPG attached none of these fields and SRS
  omitted ``optical_velocity``.

- **OMNIC Experiment Information blocks** decoded (block-directory key 0x82,
  subtype 0x79) in SPA and SPG readers. The reader now extracts the
  experiment file path and short name, accessory/compartment name, and
  experiment description from the binary block and stores them in
  ``dataset.meta`` as ``omnic_experiment_path``, ``omnic_experiment_file``,
  ``omnic_accessory``, and ``omnic_experiment_title``. Malformed or missing
  blocks are handled defensively.

- Clarified specialized writer docstrings so format-specific APIs such as
  ``write_csv()``, ``write_jcamp()``, and ``write_matlab()`` no longer
  advertise the generic multi-protocol export options documented on
  ``write()``.

- Notebook prompts hidden in generated tutorials; gallery example repr noise
  reduced.

Bug Fixes
~~~~~~~~~

- Standardized unsupported reader errors so invalid protocols, unrecognized
  file types, and unsupported CSV origins report the affected filename,
  requested or detected value, and supported alternatives. (#1143)

Developer
~~~~~~~~~

- Official plugins now use the ``Framework :: SpectroChemPy :: Official Plugin``
  Trove classifier in ``pyproject.toml`` as the single source of truth for CI
  auto-discovery.  Adding a new official plugin no longer requires editing
  workflow files.  Documented in ``CONTRIBUTING.md`` and the plugin packaging
  guide.  The plugin template (``plugins/plugin-template/pyproject.toml``)
  includes a comment explaining the requirement.

- Raised all plugin lower bounds from ``>=0.9`` to ``>=0.10`` across
  ``pyproject.toml`` and ``recipe.yaml`` files.  Added the
  ``Framework :: SpectroChemPy :: Official Plugin`` classifier to each
  official plugin's ``pyproject.toml``.  Added ``spectrochempy-perkinelmer``
  to the core ``[plugins]`` extra and related requirement files.

- Refactored CI auto-discovery for official plugins.  ``publish_plugins.yml``,
  ``release_plugin.yml``, ``build_package.yml``, ``test_package.yml``,
  ``build_docs.yml``, and ``install_on_colab.yml`` now discover plugins
  dynamically via the classifier instead of hardcoded allowlists.
  ``select_test_targets.py``, ``ci_diagnostics.py``, and
  ``plugin_version_status.py`` use the same mechanism.  Added
  ``src/spectrochempy/ci/install_plugins.py`` helper with
  ``--editable``, ``--list-names``, and pip flags for CI and local
  development.
